1. “Malacca Strait”: connects the Andaman Sea & South China Sea, located between Indonesia and Malaysia
2. “Palk Strait”: connects the Bay of Mannar & Bay of Bengal, located between India and Sri Lanka
3. “Sunda Strait”: connects the Java Sea & Indian Ocean, located in Indonesia
4. “Yucatan Strait”: connects the Gulf of Mexico & Caribbean Sea, located between Mexico and Cuba
5. “Mesina Strait”: connects the Mediterranean Sea, located between Italy and Sicily
6. “Bab-el-Mandeb Strait”: connects the Red Sea & Gulf of Aden (Arabian Sea), located between Yemen and Djibouti
7. “Taurus Strait”: connects the Arafura Sea & Gulf of Papua, located between Papua New Guinea and Australia
8. “Bass Strait”: connects the Tasman Sea & South Sea, located in Australia
9. “Bonne-Fasio Strait”: connects the Mediterranean Sea, located between Corsica and Sardinia
10.	“Bosporus Strait”: connects the Black Sea & Marmara Sea, located in Turkey
11.	“Dardanelles Strait”: connects the Marmara Sea & Aegean Sea, located in Turkey
12.	“Davis Strait”: connects Baffin Bay & Atlantic Ocean, located between Greenland and Canada
13.	“Denmark Strait”: connects the North Atlantic & Arctic Ocean, located between Greenland and Iceland
14.	“Dover Strait”: connects the English Channel & North Sea, located between England and France
15.	“Florida Strait”: connects the Gulf of Mexico & Atlantic Ocean, located between the USA and Cuba
16.	“Hormuz Strait”: connects the Gulf of Persia & Gulf of Oman, located between Oman and Iran
17.	“Hudson Strait”: connects the Gulf of Hudson & Atlantic Ocean, located in Canada
18.	“Gibraltar Strait”: connects the Mediterranean Sea & Atlantic Ocean, located between Spain and Morocco
19.	“Magellan Strait”: connects the Pacific Ocean & South Atlantic Ocean, located in Chile
20.	“Makassar Strait”: connects the Java Sea & Celebes Sea, located in Indonesia
21.	“Tsugaru Strait”: connects the Japan Sea & Pacific Ocean, located in Japan (between Hokkaido and Honshu Island)
22.	“Karimata Strait”: connects the South China Sea & Java Sea
23.	“Tsushima Strait”: connects the Japan Sea, Yellow Sea & East China Sea